## 4 - The Abstraction: The Process

---

### 4.5 Data Structures

The OS is a program, and like any program, it has some key data structures that track various relevant pieces of information. To track the state of each process, for example, the OS likely will keep some kind of **process list** for all processes that are ready and some additional information to track which process is currently running. The Os must also track, in some way, blocked processes; when an I/O event complests, the OS should make sure to wake the correct process and ready it to run again.

```
// the registers xv6 will save and restore
// to stop and subsequently restart a process
struct context {
    int eip;
    int esp;
    int ebx;
    int ecx;
    int edx;
    int esi;
    int edi;
    int ebp;
};

// the different states a process can be in
enum proc_state { UNUSED, EMBRYO, SLEEPING,
                  RUNNABLE, RUNNING, ZOMBIE };

// the information xv6 tracks about each process
// including its register context and state
struct proc {
    char *mem;                  // Start of process memory
    uit sz;                     // Size of process memory
    char *kstack;               // Bottom of kernel stack

    enum proc_state state;      // Process state
    int pid;                    // Process ID
    struct proc *parent         // Parent process
    void *chan;                 // If !zero, sleeping on chan
    int killed                  // If !zero, has been killed
    struct file *ofile[NOFILE]; // Open files
    struct inode *cwd           // Current directory
    struct context context;     // Switch here to run process
    struct trapframe *tf;       // Current interrupt
}
```

Figure 4.5 shows what type of information an OS needs totrack about each process in the xv6 kernel [CK+08]. Smilar process structres exist in "real" operating systems such as Linux, Mac OS X, or Windows; look them up and see how much more complex they are.

From the figure, you can see a coupe of important pieces of information the OS tracks a bout a process. The **register context** will hold, for a stopped process, the contents of its registers. When a process is stopped, its registers will be saved to this memory location; by restoring these registers (i.e., placing their values back into the actual physical registers), the Os canresume running the process. We'll learn more about this technique knowna s a **context switch** in future chapters.

You can also see from the figure that there are some other states a process can be in, beyond running, ready, and blocked. Sometimes a system will have a **initial** state that the process is in when it is being reacted. Also a process could be placed in a **final** state where it has exited but has not yet been cleaned up (in UNIX-based systems, this is called the **zombie** state<sup>1</sup>). This final state can be useful as it allows other processes (usually the **parent** that created the process) to examine the return code of the process and see if the just-finished process executed successfully (usually, programs return zero in UNIX-based systems when they have accomplished a task successfully, and non-zero otherwise). When finished, the parent will make one final call (e.g., `wait()`) to wait for the completion of the child, and to also indicate to the OS that it can clean up any relevant data structures that referred to the now-extinct process.

---

[[CK+08]](#) “The xv6 Operating System” by Russ Cox, Frans Kaashoek, Robert Morris, NickolaiZeldovich. From: https://github.com/mit-pdos/xv6-public. *The coolest real and little OS in the world. Download and play with it to learn more about the details of how operating systems actually work. We have been using an older version (2012-01-30-1-g1c41342) and hence some examples in the book may not match the latest in the source.*