##### January 8th, 2020

# Seminar in Computing

Instructor: RoxAnn Stalvey

Meeting times: MWF 4:15 - 5:30 PM

- Mon: SSMB
- Wed/Fri: HWEA 302

*Things were a little spooky at first, but Stalvey is indeed teaching (as of today), and 

## How the class works

***Meeting times***

- Mondays: meet with the other class in SSMB 129 4:15 - 5:30 PM
  - First monday you meet together is February 3rd
- Wednesdays meet in HWEA 4:15 - 5:30 PM
- Class does **NOT** meet on Fridays.

Attendance is mandatory, etc., etc.

***Readings***

- No textbook required.
- All readings will come from publications, blogs, etc.


***Speaker series***

- Speakers will attend every Monday 

***Student Presentations***

Evaluation

***Final Paper***

- Based on topic chosen for student presentation
- Three pages
- IEEE format

***Presentation***

- Ask five (total) meaningful questions of the speakers.
- Write your name, date, presenter's name, and the asked question on a provided notecard
- Return notecard to Stalvey
- Credit is only given for one question per day.

***Grade breakdown***

| Subject | Percent |
|-|-|
| Attendance | 10% |
| Software Engineering Ethics Discussion and HW | 15% |
| Resume Review | 5% |
| Attend BizBash OR Career Fair | 5% |
| Presentation | 20% |
| Evaluations | 10% |
| Paper | 15% |
| Participation | 20% |

**NO COMPUTERS DURING CLASSES!!!** Most classes will be presentations, either by students, or speakers. Be respectful!


---

## Ethics in Software Engineering

### Ethics - Theories

- ***Consequentialism*** - The **consequences** of your actions decide what is right versus what is wrong.

- ***Deontology*** - The **duty** (moral obligations or rules) should decide right vs wrong. (Kant)

- ***Virtue Ethics*** - 

### The Trolly Problem & Autonomous Cars


---

## Project Topic Selection