##### January 14th

## Network Security

Early-class ramblings
- Using a ssh-capable shell is paramount.
  - Ubuntu PC is good to go, but needs extra Kali-related installs
    - Kali suite
  - For Windows, you can try WSL, but PutTY will work.
- She talked a lot about why we're using GENI as our cloud service

---

### Lab instructions

One documet per team

- Generally, labs are given time in class
- Labs are otherwise finished outside of class

---

### From the readings

Chapter 1
- pillars of security

Chapter 2
- authentication
- entropy

Chapter 12
- Crypto
- Extra material from Dr. X's slides

---

### Lecture, continued

Approaches to security
- Prevention
  - defer
  - antivirus & firewall
- Detection
  - antivirus scans
- Response
  - mitigate

Standardization
- SANS - 
- NIST - National Institute of Standards

The security mindset
- "Be paranoid about everything"

Attaclers asymmetric advantage
- Defence is more important than offense
- The defender has infinitely many weaknessed to defend
- The attacker only has to exploit one weakness


the "teams"
- red team (offense)
- blue team (defence)
- purple team?
  - newer concept
  - combine both skills


CIANA
- **Confidentiality**
  - Protection of information from disclosure to unauthorized individuals, systems, or entities.
  - data-oriented
- **Integrity** (assinged in class)
  - Protection of information, systems and services from unauthorized modification or destruction.
  - data-oriented
  - Example: file integrity
    - merge conflicts in source control
    - hashing to check file integrity
- **Availability**
  - Timely, reliable access to data and information services by autorized users.
  - service-oriented
- **Non-repudiation**
  - The availability to correlate, with high certainty, a recorded action with its originating individual or entity.
  - entity-oriented
- **Authentication**
  - The ability to verify

Class question - What is the difference between:
- Threat
  - a negative effect; undesired outcome
- Vulnerability
  - a wekness
- Risk
  - a probablity/chance of a weakness being exploited
  - ranked by potential impact, but the impact is not technically the risk.