#### Collin Bauer

## Network Security

NCL registration is open Monday, Feburary 10th
- [Hop on it right away!!!](http://nationalcyberleague.org/spring-season-2020)
- They have a Slack channel too.
- "Intense, but intensely fun" (lolnpe)
- Grade does not depend on ranking
  - completeness (how many questions)
  - accuracy
- will be similar to rootme challenge

<br/>

### Lab 2 Common mistakes
- r/w/x answers (pretty sure we got that)
- complete process from John the Ripper
  - steps to execute code, etc
  - script writte, if any

<br/>

### HW2

1. Crypto stuff
2. TCP/IP Stack
3. IP Routing
   - GET GENI RUNNING
4. SQL Injection
   - Start setting up Docker

---

## Public Key, cont.

See [last class' notes](./02-04.md#Public-Key-Cryptography) for equations. Lots o' mod.

***Odds and ends***
- **Diffie-Hellman** is commmonly used in SSL (Secure Socket Layer) to exchange *keys*.
- **RSA** is commonly used to exchange ...?
- *Note that Dr. X is picky about the names of algorithms. That's fine, but they're hard to remember.*

C = M<sup>bob</sup> modN  
M = C<sup>priv</sup>mod N  
N = p * q
pub * priv = 1 mod (p- 1)(q - 1) ???????????????????????

*Dr. X seems confused... So am I.*

Note that p and q may be hundreds of digits long.
- ~200-512 bits

<br/>

### Is RSA secure?

Generally, yes.
- {e,n} is public information


### Attacking against RSA

Timing Attacks
  - recovers the privatekey........eh, it's on the powerpoint
  - countermeasures
    - delay result if computation is fast
    - add random delay
    - blinding: multiply ciphertext by random number before decrypting

---

## Message Digests

What we alreay know
- one way hashes
- digests
  - MD5
  - SHA-2
  - SHA-3

Medium Access Control (MAC)

### HMAC
- H(k<sub>2</sub>, H(M,k<sub>1</sub>))
  - prevents length-extention attacks

### Digital Signatures
- **Unforgeable**
- **Authentic**
- *Not alterable*
- *Not reusable*

Generating information on business owners...or something
```
         |───────────────────|
       ──| Bob's ID          |
      /  |───────────────────|
 [H]─────| Bob's public key  |
  |   \  |───────────────────|
  |    ──| CA Info           |
[///]    |───────────────────|
  |      |XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX|
         |───────────────────|
...

All of this can be found both in the book and on her slides
```

---

Cybersecurity pseudonyms
- Alice ─ person A (the sender)
- Bob ─ person B (the receiver)
- Eve ─ the "evil" interceptor; eavesdropper

Common example messages
- Attack at dawn
- Kill the Queen
- Bank withdrawals & deposits