#### Collin Bauer

## Network Security

### TODO
- Register for NCL
- Use coach pairing link on OAKS for NCL
- make sure GENI works
- Start HW2
- Finish lab 3

### Test
- single page front/back
- focus more on problem solving than memorizing
- for terms, remember abbreviations mostly.

---

Recall RSA from last week. It is very important.

Digital Signatures
- Integrity
- Authenticity

Certifecate Authorities
- It made much more sense this time, when not trying to copy it down.
- See diagram from her slides on CA encription and decryption.

<br/>

## Computer Networks...a crash course

This section could be an entire course. We are just skimming the surface.

Make sure you study this, since what we *do* cover is vital to the class, and to the major as a whole.

### Outline
- What is the internet?
- OSI vs TCP Stack
- A day in the lift of a web request - big picture
- Network Structure
- L5 - Application (HTTP,DNS)
  - HTTP - Hypertext Transfer Protocol
  - DNS - 
- L4 - Transport (TCP/UDP)
- L3 - Routing (BGP, OSF)
- L2 - Data Link(ARP)
  - ARP - Address Resolution Protocol

<br/>

### What is the Internet?
- Billions of connected computing devices
  - hosts - end systems
  - running network apps
- Communication links
  - fiber, copper, radio, sattelite
  - Bandwidth - transmision rate
- Packet switches
  - routers and switches

**Nuts and "volts" view**
- ***Internet*** - "network of networks"
  - interconnected ISPs
- protocols control sending, receiving of messages
  - TCP, IP, HTTP, etc...
- Internet standars
  - RFC - Request for comments
  - IETF- Internet Engineering Task Force

**A service view**
- infrastructure that proves services to aplications
  - web, VOIP, Email, games, etc....
- provides programming interface to apps
  - hooks that allow sending andreceiving app programs to "connect" to the internet
  - provides service options, analogous to postal service

Logical Netowrk Diagram
```
 ((Internet))
      |
     (x) <-- router
      |
     [x] <-- Switch
     /|\
    / | \
  [] []  []  Devices
```
<br/>

### Internet Protocol Stack

Six layers
- *Application*
  - supporting network applications
  - FMP, SMTP, HTTP
- *Transport*
  - process-process data transfer
  - TCP, UDP
- *Network*
  - routing of datagrams from source to destination
  - IP, routing protocols
- *Link*
  - data transfer between neighboring netowrk elemeents
  - Ethernet, 802.111, PPP
- *Physical*
  - bits "on the wire"


### Encapsulation

see diagram on slides.

Networks are implemented by the *Operating System*.

<br/>

### Network of Networks

*Given millions of ISPs, how do we connect them together?

Path = O(n<sup>2</sup>)
Seems kinda bad, right? So we use a tiered system.

computer -> local -> ISP -> regional -> InternetExchange Point (IXP) -> global -> allll the way back down

See slides for more details.