#### Collin Bauer

## Network Security

---


Quiz
1. Routing...
   - determines route taken by packets ...

2. A router port is...
   - A physical interface
   - Not to be confused with *logical* ports

3. The connecting information between network and transport layer is the...
   - *logical* Port nmber

4. An IP header has lenth...
   - 20 bytes
   - each layer's header is 20 bytes, apparently
   - She went over what each layer's header contains. Look it up!

5. MTU size is...
   - 1500 bytes
   - "Maximum Transmission Unit"
   - As defined by Ethernet v2; other maximums have existed
   - It's on her slides.

6. IPv4 adress size is...
   - 32 bits
   - x.x.x.x -> 4 bytes * 8 bits per byte = 32

7. In an IP address the higher oerder bits indicate the...
   - Subnet

8. A subnet is...
   - An isolated network
   - Generally local, but could be global

9. How does a host get an IP address?
   - DHCP - Dynamic Host Control Protocol
   - protocol used by *routers*

10. A NAT router changes...
   - both...
     - A local source IP to a global source IP
     - The source port to another source port
   - Network Address Translation

11. How do routers pick the best route to get to their destination?
    - both...
      - Dijkstra's algorithm
      - Distance Vector algorithm

12. Intra AS routing deploys...
    - Dijkstra - OSPF
    - AS - Autonomous System
    - OSPF - Open Shortest Path First

13. Inter AS routing deploys...
    - Distnace Vecotor - BGP
    - BPG - Border Gateway Protocol


I came in fifth. And that's despite getting a lot of questions wrong. And despite not watching the video. xD

<br/>

---

### Per-router control plane
Individual routing algorithm components *in each and every router* interact in the control plane.
- This is themost common implementation as of today

### Logically centeralized control plane
A distinct (typically remote) controller interacts withlocal control agents (CAs)
- This is a more modern "paradigm"

*See slides and animations for more details*

### The Intret Network Layer
- host, router netwrokr layerfunctions

...etc..etc...Look at the slides, watch the video.

<br/>

---

## Subnets

### IP addressing - introduction

***IP address***
- 32-bit identifire for host, router interface

***Interface***
- connection between host/router and physical link
  - routers typically have multiple interfaces
  - host typically has one or two interfaces (e.g. wired Ethernet, wireless 802.11)

IP addresses are associated with each interface

### Subnet

Subnet address
- the first 3 bytes (24 bits) of an IP address define the subnet of an
  - the last of those three bytes specifies a local router on the subnet
- The forth bit specifies an exact device on the network

**Special addresses**
- x.x.x.0
  - Reserved - no computer may own this address
  - used for broadcasting messages to *all* devices on a network
    - common usage: "Who is X? Y wants to know."
- x.x.x.1
  - Special address used by the router

Issues to consider:
- How do you specify subnet sizes?
- What if a subnet's size is not a multiple of 8?

### Subnet Mask

A ***subnet mask*** is used to specify how many devices may be used in a subnet.

- Note that subnet masks may be written in *bits* to avoid confusion.

*Calculating a subnet, example*
- 10.20.237.15/21
  - binary: 00001010.00010100.11101101.00001111
  - subnet of 21
    - 11111111.11111111.11111000.00000000
    - decimal: 255.255.248.0
  - AND address w/ subnet
    - 00001010.00010100.11101000.00000000
    - decimal: 10.20.232.0

Random notes
- A host can only be a part of a single subnet at any given time
- A router may be part of multiple subnets, apparently
- Common subnets
  - 10.0.0.0/8
  - 192.168.0.0/16
  - 172.16.0.0/12
  - 169.254.0.0/16

<br/>
---

### NAT - Netowrk Address Translation