#### Collin Bauer

## Network Security

*Dr. X has a sword around her neck.*

Apparently we were supposed to use Postman for the homework assignment. That was not made clear.

---

## Browser attacks

*chapter 4.1*  
*slides adopted from Standford Web security Group*

Outline
- Web Security Model
- Browser attacks
- ActiveX *lol*
- Javascript
- Cookies & SOP

See slicdes for visualizations.


### Website storing info in browser

A ***cookie*** is a file created bya website to store information in the browser
- stores state 
- common uses:
  - personal information
  - personalization

Cookies *should* have an expiration date, but many web developers do not set this field.
- Amazon Alexa apparently doesn't.


### Where do attackers live?

**Web Attacker** - lives in the server
- controls a *holy crap she just jumped around a ton.*

**Network Attacker**
- lives between the client and server
- man-in-the-middle

**Malware Attacker**
- malicious code injected into browser, OS, or even hardware

???
```
                        Web App
                    ┌───────────────────────────┐
            POST    │   DB                      │
Attacker----------->│   ┌┐          HTML        │
  ^     <script>    │   └┘                      │
  |                 │                           │
GET evil.com        │                           │
  |      GET ex.com |                           │
Victim ------------>│                           │
  |                 │                           │
  |                 └───────────────────────────┘
  |                             | 200 OK
  |                             | <script>
  └-----------------------------┘

```


Injection protections
1. Escape
   - e.g. " -> \\"
2. Validating
   - only accept input of certain formats
3. Sanitizing
   - remove input considered malicious before accepting

### SOP for cookies
 missed this, but it has to do with 


 ## XSRF

 ***Cross-Site Request Forgery***
 
 See slides for attack examples. It is commonly used 

 XSRF protections
 - Randomized tokens per sessions
 - Browser defenses
   - validaiton
   - referral?

---

Dr. X wanted to show off some more tools at the end of class, and encouraged us to continue playing with OWASP.

Tools
- Burp suite
  - proxy service
  - decoder
  - 

She teaches concepts, not tools. But tools are helpful and welcome, and tutorials exist.