#### January 14th

## Operating Systems

This lecture
- Chapter 2
- The /proc filesystem
- "C" - pointers and references
- Chapter 4 - Processes

Due
-HW1 - Thursday Jan 16 11:59 PM

---

### Chapter 2

Characteristics of an operating system

- Virtualization
  - Address spaces
  - mem.c
  - Crosby: "You can program for a 4-bit processor on a 64-bit computer and it will work!"

- Concurrence
  - threads.c

- Persistence
  - Questions to consider
    - "How do I make sure nobody writes over my information?"

---

### /proc

What on earth?!?!

LINUX HAS A SPECIAL DIRECTORY CALLED /PROC WHICH STORES ALL CURRENTLY RUNNING PROCESSES IN A VIRT

Related commands:
- `cd /proc` - Go into /proc directory
- `pgrep <arg>` - look up a process by name, i.e. `pgrep bash` or `pgrep firefox`

Other commands
- `less` displays file data in a non-editing CLI text viewer (I guess)
- `more` not really sure
- `nano` a common cli text editor

---

### "C" Pointers

**How referencing works**
- `char *i;`  
  -&nbsp;a pointer to some character
- `char **i;`  
  -&nbsp;a pointer to the pointer of a caracter
- `int j = *l;`  
  -&nbsp;dereferencing the pointer of l  
   &nbsp; i.e. j returns the int value of l
- `int *k = &j;`  
  -&nbsp;k points to the address of some int variable j  
  &nbsp; i.e.*k returns the address of j


### Functions in C

Everything in C is ***call by value***
- This is why you need to specify pointers when passing certain values.


***The Stack and Heap are very weird in C***

The `malloc` function
- "memory allocation"
- `#include <memory.h>`
- `malloc(unsigned int size)`

If you allocate something, and the pointer to it is gone, it is proper form to then `free` that address.
- `free(address to memoy location)`

This is a form of garbage collection.

---

### Notes on compiling

`gcc` flags
- `-Wall` - "Warnings, all"  
  -&nbsp;lists all warnings 
- `-o` - 
  -&nbsp;

The "make" file
- Steps to using one:
  - Make a file `./Makefile`
  - run `make` and it will execute said file according to certain rules
- "Is the timestamp of the soruce file different from the executable?"
  - "If yes, rebuid it."
  - "If no, keep the cmpiled code as is.



```
all: pointers_class

clean:
    rm pointers_class

pointers_class: pointers_class.c
    gcc -Wall -o pointers_class pointers_class.c
```

---

### Standard libraries in C

C has very few built in commands, but there are many that we will need at various points in time. We can reach these by using `#include` and specifying the libraries as needed.

Common libraries
- `<stdio.h>` - Standard input/output
- `<stdlib.h>` - Standard library
- `<strings.h>` - Functions related to strings
- `<memory.h>` - Functions relating to meory allocation and the heap

Custom libraries
- We have not gone overthis yet, but he reguraly creates something called `"common.h"` which is somewhere in his file structure.

---

### Chapter 4 - Processes

"A running program"

But it's virtual!
- CPU/Memory


***"What constitutes the machine state?"***
- Next instruction pointer
- Contents of registers
- Contents of memory

***"Which process gets how much time?"***
- Possible ways to schedule processes
  - time slicing
  - scheduling policies
    - priority
    - I/O wait

If you look at the history of Linux, it has had several different scheduling policies over the years.
  
***Process control block***

Process API requirements
- Create
  - load program file
  - results
    - executable code
    - static data
  - create virtual memory
    - PCB
- Destroy
- Wait/Resume
- Status


```
+-----------+
|    PCB    |
|-----------|
|           |
|Exectuable |
|   Code    |
|           |
|-----------|
|  Static   | 
|   Data    |
|-----------|
|   Heap    |            |
|           | grows down v
|-----------|           ---
|  Stack    |  grows up  ^
|           |            |
+-----------+
```

***Shared obects***
- usually related to operating specific information
- doesn't always get loaded in the same location
- refers to a "relocation table" which gets tweaked when loaded into memory

---

Other

Crosby has a few bones to pick with the Windows OS.