#### Collin Bauer

## Operating Systems 

Assignments
- ~~HW2 due by midnight~~ Be sure to finish and submit!
- ~~Project 1 teams due by midnight~~
- Project 1 due
- HW3 assigned; due

Toaday's content:
- Chapters 7-9
- sizeof and debugging

<br/>

---

## Chapter 7 - Simple Scheduling

*continued from last class*

***Our Assumptions:***
1. Each job runs for the same amount of CPU time
2. All jobs sart atthe same time
3. All jobs run to completion
4. No I/O, CPU only
5. Each job runs for a known amount of CPU time

These assumptions are not realistic, but they help us understand the fundamentals.

<br/>

### FIFO Scheduling
- run jobs; first in, first out (a normal queue)


---

Example - FIFO queue

Job A - 10 seconds  
Job B - " "  
Job C - " "

```
0       10      20      30
|       |       |       |
|------>|------>|------>|
| Job A | Job B | Job C |
```

Average turnaround time
(10 + 20 + 30)/3 = 20


*What if the jobs are of a different length?*

A = 100  
B = 10  
C = 10

Average turnaround time
(100 + 110 120)/3 = 110


We can instead consider the order of these jobs important, whichcreats the next type of scheudling.

<br/>

### Shortest Job First

A = 100  
B = 10  
C = 10

Average turnaround time
- (10 + 20 + 120)/ 3 = 150/3 = 50
- much less waiting for each job on average

If we relax the assumption that all jobs start at the same time, then we run into an issue where a job comes in late. If jobs must run *to completion*, this means the new job must happen after the 100 cycle job finished, thus increasing turnaround time. So what if we relaxed this assumption too?

<br/>

### Preemption

One way to handle this case is to suspend the longer job so the shorter job may start and complete quickly

```
0       10      20      30      40      50      60
|       |       |       |       |       |       |
|+----->|------/|+----->|/--------------------->|
| Job B | Job A | Job C | Job A                 |
```

Here, Job A and B started at the same time. Job C only appeared at the 20 second mark, so we have:
- (10 + 10 + 120)/3 = 46


Another concept to keep in mind:  
**Response Time**
- T<sub>Response</sub> = T<sub>StartsRun</sub> - T<sub>Arrival</sub>
- Looking at above example:  
  T<sub>RofB</sub> = 0  
  T<sub>RofA</sub> = 10

<br/>

### Round Robin

- Relaxes I/O assumption
- Time slices
- Minimizes response time

A = 100  
B = 10  
C = 10

```
0   2   4   6   8   10  12  14  16
|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|+-/|--/|--/|--/|--/|--/|+-/|--/|
| A | B | C | A | B | C | D | A |
```

Notice how D jumped in almost immediately when it was created.

Any job waiting for I/O simply drops out of the round robin until I/O has arrived.

*What's the longest thing a computer needs to wait for?* -- **Humans**

Consider a 1Ghz processor. Every cycle takes 10<sup>-9</sup> seconds to complete. If an I/O takes 0.01 seconds to complete, that's 10<sup>7</sup> cycles that could be completed while waiting!

**Thrashing**
- "The computer is taking up so much time trying to decide what to do that it doesnt actually do anything!"


***Scheduling policy review***
- ***FIFO*** - First In, First Out
- ***SJF*** - Shorted Job First
- ***STCF*** - Shortest to Completion First
- ***RR*** - Round Robin

How do we know how long a job takes?
- Hitsory: *How long did it take last time?*

<br/>

### Multi-Level Feedback Queue
```
 --- Q1     J1  J2
  ^  Q2
  |  Q3     J3  J4
  |  Q4
  |  Q5
  |  Q6     J5
 --- Q7
 
```

**Rules**
1. Higher priority runs first
2. Equal priority ==> Round Robin
3. All jobs start at the highest priority
4. Moving down in priority  
   A. If the job uses all of its T.S, move down in priority  
   B. If the job gives up CPU before the end of T.S, leave in queue

This leads to the following properties:
- I/O-bound jobs tend to float towards the top.
- CPU-bound jobs tend to float towards the bottom.

***Starving***
- In this model, long CPU-bound processes may be *starved* by smaller, faster processes
- Solution: Occasionally reset priorities


***Gaming the system***
- Couldn't a clever programmer simply do useless I/O calls to keep a high priority?
- Reduce priority by *total* time spent, not just by TS.


***Parameters to tweak***
- \# of queues
- Time slice size

Different use cases will have different parametrs depeing on the work loads.

<br/>

### Lottery Scheduler

To be discussed next time.

<br/>

---

### sizeof

[sizeof example code](./examples/sizeof.c)

Notes from example
- When you increment a pointer, it increments *by the size of the thing that it points to*.

### GNU Debugger

`gdb /path/to/c/program/`

---

### Notes from HW3

02/06/2020

Response time  
T<sub>R</sub> = T<sub>S - T<sub>A</sub>

Turnaround time  
T<sub>T</sub> = T<sub>E</sub> - T<sub>A</sub>

