#### Collin Bauer

## Operating Systems

Homework due tonight. Technically tomorrow 7AM.

Links to recordings will be posted on Oaks.

---

We continued running through the WaitAny.c example. The final version should be put on Oaks, probably.

We then went and looked at WaitAll.c. This one made much more sense, so that's cool.


<br/>

## Named Semahpores

This concept isn't in the book, but is important in modern OSes that don't allow nameless semaphores (OS X).
- `sem_t *semaphore = sem_open(name, flags, value);`
- Located: `/proc/shm/sem.name`

The goal of this is to let the operating take care of most of the legwork, which is why its in the /proc file system. It also helps with multiprocessing.

---

## Review

- Piping & redirecting
- Threads vs processes
  - processes can't see each other's memory
    - creating a new process copies the current memory & codespace to said process
  - threads share memory space
    - one heap, multiple stacks
- Atomc operations
  - race conditions
    - multiple threads trying to access the same memory
  - critical sections
    - mutual exclusion - one at a time
- Deterministic vs indeterminate
  - Deterministic - we can know how it is going to work
  - Indeterminate - we don't have that guarantee (i.e. race conditions; thread order)
- Unguarded vs guarded code
- pthread API
  - `pthread_t`
  - `pthread_create(&threads, NULL, *threadFun, (void*)params)`
  - ...
- ?
- threadlocking
  - globally accesible
  - effectiveness?
  - fairness?
  - performance?
  - types:
    - lock/unlock
    - disable/enable
    - spin locks
    - yield (the good one)
- Parallel data structures
  - counters
  - linked lists
  - queues
  - hash tables, apparently
- condition variables
  - event signaling
  - mutex
  - state variables
  - producer/consumer problem
- ?
- multiple waiting
  - WaitAny
  - WaitAll
  - can be solved w/ condition variables or semaphores