#### Collin Bauer

## Operating Systems

Assignments
- HW9 due Friday, April 10 7AM
- Test 3 willl be Saturday, April 25 in-class
- Extra credit opportunity
  - Build a CLI shell "ccsh"
  - Due Monday, April 27 7AM
  - posted today

---


### General notes
- `strace` is a Linux command that traces the execution of a another program.
  - comnmand that is traced still executes fully
  - does not work on built-in commands like `cd`

---

## Files and Directories

File vs. Directory

Files have...
- Metadata
- API
- **Buffering**
- **Transformations**

Directories have...
- Metadata
- API
- **Linking**

Under the hood, directories are a lot like special files.


<br/>

## Files (cont.)

### Buffering

Write calls are expensive. A buffer is a solution to this

Properties
- stores a set amount of data to be written to output
- handled by libc, not the OS
- functions
  - flush()

<br/>

## Directories

Diretory operations
- create
- remove
- read
  - note: changing directories is a read operation
- add file
- remove file

### Linking (hard links)
- creates a directory listing of a file to a directory
- multiple links may be mapped to a single file
- If no links exist to data, the OS deletes it

<br/>

### Partitions

***Parittions*** are segments of storage. A single physical drive may contain one partition, or many.

(Technically it a drive may also be a part of a larger partition too. See: RAID file formats)

Partition properties
- set size
- file system type
- metadata
- splits files into certain-sized blocks


Partition management software
- gparted (Linux)
- Disk Management (Windows)

**File systems** - There are lots of thsese, but here are some important ones
- FAT16
- FAT32
- NTFS

How do we manage differnt file systems?
- **inode** metadata handler
  - defined by the partition
  - static array stored by partition
  - inode info stored in every file
  - tells partitions how to find data

The number of inodes limits the number of files a file system may contain. As such, the array is typically very big.

### Superblock
- type
- bitmap sizes
- # of inodes
- block sizes
- # of data blocks

The superblock varies by file system, but it's usually block 2.

